Social media is about to change forever
for creators, for brands, for anyone
that's using content to grow a business.
The game is being completely reset
because the truth is, we're entering a
brand new era for marketing. Now, the
good news is there are lots of new ways
to win that weren't possible before. I
know this because I spend all day on the
cutting edge of content marketing and
distribution. I have a million
followers. I've done billions of views.
And I'm starting to see trends and
patterns that are not obvious to the
average person, but are massive
opportunities. So, in this video, I'm
going to walk through the six biggest
social media trends that I see coming
over the next few years. And if you care
about growing your business at all,
you're going to want to pay attention.
All right. Now, the first social media
trend is the emergence of new social
platforms. That's right. We are going to
get new social platforms that launch in
the next couple years. And this really
is the mega trend. Because if there's
one thing the marketing world has taught
me, it's how important it is to be ready
when a new social platform launches. Cuz
here's the thing. If you were given a
choice, every creator and business owner
on Earth would go back in time to invest
more in Facebook and YouTube in the
early 2010s, Instagram and LinkedIn in
the late 2010s, and Tik Tok in 2020.
Why? Because those early years are the
easiest time to win. If you were to map
the life cycle of any social platform,
those first 12 to 18 months have user
demand that significantly outpaces
content supply. Literally, any piece of
content posted works. During this
period, you get massive views, massive
followers, and massive conversion for
almost no effort. It's literally a gold
rush. And this gold rush phenomenon
happens both when new platforms launch
and when old platforms launch a new
feature. And we all saw this with
Instagram reels in 2022. Instagram had
been around since 2010. And by 2020, it
kind of felt like the game was solved.
It was over. But the addition of reels
in 2022 completely reset everything on
Instagram and allowed a ton new people
to enter and lots more to win. What this
means is that you should always be
looking for new social platforms as well
as when old social platforms launch new
features so that you can sprint and take
advantage of those early moments. So,
here's why this all matters. I think
we're about to see a few massive
launches in the social media space over
the next few years. Let me explain what
they are. First and foremost, the one
that's for sure happening is US Tik Tok.
If you haven't been following the news,
the US forced China to sell the rights
to US Tik Tok to a US controlled
conglomerate. Now, it's not exactly
clear who all the owners will be, but
it's rumored Oracle, Silverlake, and
potentially even A16Z will be in the
mix. And this means that in the next 6
to 12 months, you will see a brand new
social platform emerge for the first
time since Threads and before that, Tik
Tok itself. And I'm telling you, this is
going to be the biggest opportunity in
the social media world since the
pandemic because it's been reported that
the US controlled version of Tik Tok
will need to rebuild their own
algorithms from scratch. And that means
user profiles and followers that have
already been built up on the existing
Tik Tok will not port over to the US
version. Everybody's starting over from
scratch, including me. But this time,
all the new players that will come in on
day one have already built businesses on
the existing Tik Tok. They know the
playbook. They know how to make content,
and they're going to come ready starting
on day one. Now, if you care about
making money at all from content,
whether it's brand deals or to fund your
business, the launch of US Tik Tok is
not something that you should ignore.
And I promise I will make a lot more
videos in the future for the strategies
and tactics for how to dominate on US
Tik Tok as we get closer. So make sure
to stay tuned and follow along for
those. Now, I mentioned at the beginning
of this section that I expect to see a
couple new social media platforms or
features launch in the next few years.
US Tik Tok is for sure happening. That's
one. But here are two other predictions
for what I think will happen in the next
2 to 3 years. First, I think we're going
to see some new niche community feature
be built on top of either Instagram
threads or X. And here's why. It's no
secret that the world is diverging.
While the internet feels like everyone's
getting more connected, I'm sensing a
trend of private groups, member clubs,
walled gardens, and private communities
become more and more popular over time.
People are sick of the feed-based media
that comes without a sense of community.
Because of this, I expect to see new
social features and potentially even a
new social platform that takes advantage
of niche-based social feeds and maybe
even builds direct pipes for social into
private communities. Think of this like
the evolution of the Facebook group, but
completely reimagined for this era. Now,
I can't say for sure what this is going
to look like, but I expect something to
come out that will take advantage of the
lack of digital community that we're
seeing across social platforms today.
And when it does, again, you're going to
want to be ready. And the way to be
ready to take advantage of this is to
start building your own private
community today. You want to be using
social platforms to ramp people from
public social feeds into private
communities. I'm telling you, that will
pay huge dividends later. You want to
start that now. All right. And my last
prediction for new social platforms is
that I expect to see a zag to the zigg
of AI content. It's no secret if you've
been following along with AI
developments. Veo3, Higsfield, Free
Pick, Hey Genen, this AI content is no
joke and is already indistinguishable
from the human-made versions. Now, the
truth is no one is really sure what's
going to happen to human creators when
the emergence of AI content increases to
the point where the humans get drowned
out. But I suspect something new is
going to emerge. With every action,
there is an equal and opposite reaction.
So whether it's a human-only verified
feed or a human-on only verified
platform, something will emerge to
combat the evolution of AI content. This
will probably be blockchainbased and
require some sort of digital
verification to verify you're a human.
Either way, regardless of what this is
or how it works, we're going to see a
lot of new changes coming to social
platforms and the invention of new ones
in the next few years. And like I said
before, the one regret I have is that if
I could have gone back and went harder
during those early eras, I would have.
So you really want to be ready and alert
for when these things happen. Now, if I
am the one you like to follow for social
media growth, the best thing you can be
doing during this era is using
Sandcastles. Sand castles is basically
my content brain. All these YouTube
videos and all my thinking on content
distilled into a super tool that you can
access 24/7. It allows you to import and
analyze all the videos from the best
channels you follow across Instagram,
Tik Tok, and YouTube. You can then find
the best performing videos in aggregate
and start to figure out the trends and
patterns that are working. This is my
cheat code for how I make so much
content so quickly. What I like to do on
Sandcastles is find the top performing
outlier videos over the last 3 months
from a list of creators that I trust and
then reverse engineer which topics are
working. I do this every single day and
this saves me hours on the research side
and also derisks my effort so that I
make winners more often. You can think
of Sandcastle kind of like one of 10 or
Vid IQ but specifically for short form
social media, Instagram, Tik Tok, and
YouTube Shorts. And we've also got a ton
of other features that make sense for
social that doesn't make sense for
YouTube. I'm telling you, this is
everything I know put into a tool at the
cutting edge. If you want to give it a
try for free, I've got a link below. I
also linked a ton of free tutorials on
how to use it. It's kind of like a free
miniourse. my gift to you in the
description. All right, the second major
social media trend that I think is going
to emerge big over the next few years is
creator moes. During all previous eras
of social media, all you needed to do
was post consistently and be active.
That was the only moat that you needed
to win. And this was because, as
shocking as this sounds, in 2025, people
still were dramatically underestimating
the value that came from building a
personal brand on social media. So, not
that many people actually did it, and
there was a huge supply demand mismatch.
Well, unfortunately, in 2025, the cat
seems to be officially out of the bag.
It's clear that in the last 12 to 18
months, most individuals and all brands
have woken up to the fact that building
an organic audience is the most valuable
marketing asset you could develop. And
because of that, we have seen a lot of
new players enter the social media and
content game in that period. I don't
know about you, but when I scroll the
feed, I am consistently seeing banger
videos from new people I've never seen
before. there are dozens of new faces
I'm getting exposed to every day and I
often think to myself, damn, there are a
lot of good creators out there now.
Well, that feeling, if you feel it too,
is there for a reason. The supply of
good creators that know how to use a
phone, they can tell a story, they can
edit, is increasing exponentially. And
so, if you want to win in the next era
of social media, just showing up and
posting consistently is not going to be
enough to cut through because instead of
three people making content in a given
niche, today it's 30 and tomorrow with
AI content, it's going to be 3,000. So,
in this next era, it'll be extremely
important to define your niche
positioning and build a durable creator
moat. Now, when I say moat, what I mean
is the difference between your personal
brand in a category and everyone else's
in the viewer's mind. Here's how I think
about creator modes. They're really a
combination of these five things. First
is your topic niche. What topic do you
actually make content about? Number two
is visual format, and this is kind of
the full package for how you visualize
your videos. Both the layout and the
visuals you use themselves. Number three
is your storytelling style. And this is
how you present information and
structure your ideas in a story flow
that people can follow. Number four is
the personality and vibe. Beyond the
topic, beyond the story, and beyond the
visual packaging, how do you come across
as a vibe through the content? Right?
So, this is the fourth bucket. And
number five is X factor. And this really
is the one of one thing about you, your
special ability that you can add as an
element or icing or a layer to the rest
that makes you different from everyone
else. Personality and vibe is the way
you come across. The X factor is the
thing about you that's different from
everyone else. So these five elements
combine together to create your
signature style and unlock your creator
moat. In this next era, it will not be
enough to just make tech breakdowns or
day- in the life gym videos. You're
going to need to build a visual-driven
aesthetic and a signature style that
pops in someone's mind when they think
of the topic category. Now, some
creators already had a signature style
and were good at this from the jump.
That's why they grew so fast. But
before, you didn't need to have it. Now,
in the next era, Creator Moes' signature
styles are going to become table stakes
where if you don't have it, you just
won't be able to cut through. Now, if
you want me to make another video
breaking down a bunch of the signature
styles that I like across different
categories and what the components are
for how they make it up, let me know in
the comments and I'll do that. All
right. Now, here's social media trend
number three. If I could go all in on a
single concept for social media growth
over the next 3 years, it would be this,
a sticky personal brand. Because I think
this framework is going to be the most
important building block of marketing in
the AI era. A sticky personal brand is
one that implants in a viewer's mind so
that they proactively seek it out again
in the future. It's the difference
between a viewer stumbling upon your
video in the feed and remembering you
verse them actively searching out
because they want to hear your opinion
on a topic. Here's the truth. In a world
of noise, it's not just signal that
matters. What matters is signal that
sticks in the viewer's brain long enough
to convert to their long-term memory so
they remember to go back a second time.
While creator modes are the framework
for getting your content to feel
signature and stand out, a sticky
personal brand is the reason why a
viewer remembers to go back in the
future. It sticks in their head. And
here's why this concept matters so much
in the next era. In a world of AIdriven
content, it will be much, much harder
for someone to stumble upon your content
on accident. I alluded to this metaphor
in a previous video, but imagine it like
this. Think of all creators on social
media like little bodies walking around
a giant warehouse floor. you, as the
viewer, go up to the catwalk on the
third level and look down to see all the
creators walking around. Now, if I asked
you to find the person in the red shirt,
could you do it? You probably could, cuz
there's only 100 people walking around.
There's only a few wearing red at all.
And so, you could easily pick that
person out and zoom in. Today, stumbling
upon someone on the social media feed is
kind of like looking down at that
warehouse and seeing the hundred people.
If you scroll enough, you're going to
see them because there's only a hundred
people making content. But in the AI
content world, there will be 10,000
people on the warehouse floor, hundreds
of which are wearing different shades of
red. You won't just be able to stumble
upon a specific person as easily. If
you're swiping, it will take 10,000
swipes just to find the right person.
You have to actively be seeking them
out. This is why having a sticky
personal brand, or in other words, a
shirt color that someone actively looks
to remember is so important. The feeds
are going to be full of amazing videos.
So many good videos, it will boggle your
mind. So, what you'll need is for fans
to want to proactively seek you out and
have a way to do so. The same way you
look forward to watching your favorite
TV show at 8:00 p.m. every Sunday. The
act of getting people to seek will be
the difference between winning and
losing on social media in the future.
So, your only job is to build a personal
brand sticky enough so that viewers
actually want to seek you out. And so,
the question really is, how do you build
a personal brand that is sticky? And how
do you become such a mainstay in your
category that viewers want to hear your
opinion over everyone else's? And the
answer is to build a cult-like personal
brand. Now, I recently made a video deep
diving on the full playbook for how to
build a cult-like personal brand. And
I'll link that video below. It's
basically a step-by-step for exactly the
type of content that you need to make in
order to achieve this stickiness around
your personal brand. But just know this,
if you don't have a personal brand that
people actively are seeking out, you're
going to have trouble winning in the
next era of social media. All right, the
fourth social media trend I'm seeing is
the shift from quality first to quantity
first when it comes to content strategy.
Now, there's an ongoing debate between
creators about which content strategy is
best. Should you focus on making more
posts at a lower quality or should you
focus on making fewer posts at a higher
quality? It's the quantity versus
quality debate. Some people claim that
quality doesn't matter at all. You just
post a ton of quantity and you're just
guaranteed to win by law of math. Others
claim that quality definitely matters
and if you make less but have the time
to increase the quality, you'll win more
often and it'll be worth it. Now, this
seems like a trivial debate, but this is
one of those things that I feel the most
people get stuck overthinking on. So,
it's worth breaking down. Personally, I
have flip-flopped on this several times,
but I believe for the first time in a
long time, we are shifting from a
quantity first era to a quality first
era when it comes to content strategy.
Now, let me explain what I mean. Taking
a quantity first approach, just making
high volume works when you don't know
which videos are going to go viral. If
you truly don't know and you're just
waiting for random luck to strike, then
yes, higher quantity always makes sense
cuz you'll get more winners sooner. Now,
a quality first approach makes sense
when you do know which videos are going
to go viral. And if you know how to make
something go viral, you just need a
little bit more time to execute on it
well, then taking a quality first
approach with less reps is actually
better. If that's you, your goal should
be to make as many reps as you can, as
long as they're above whatever the
quality bar you know they have to be in
order to work. Now, you may be thinking,
how could someone know which videos are
going to go viral? And the answer is, if
you just remake the ones that have
already worked, your hit rate is going
to go up. And the truth is, for everyone
using sand castles to basically find the
winners faster, that's what they've been
saying to me. Their hit rate's just gone
way up because they're using a
research-driven data first process to
find winners to choose their ideas. Now,
when I initially started making content,
I bought into the quality first
approach. Instead of making seven videos
per week, I only made three, but I tried
to make the quality better. I put more
time in. And the reason I did that is
because I was a perfectionist. I liked
spending a lot of time on fewer things,
and I really didn't want to make more
videos. So, that was the narrative I
told myself. But then, as I began to
study social media more like a
scientist, I realized that the right
answer was actually quantity first. And
that was because in that era, 2023,
2024, we were still in a supply and
demand mismatch. there just wasn't
enough good supply to meet the demand.
So, me spending an incremental hour or
two to go from 9 out of 10 quality to 10
out of 10 wasn't worth it. It'd be
better if I just made two 9 out of 10
videos instead of one. But now, as we
head into this AIdriven era of social
media, I think we're shifting back to
where quality first is the better
strategy. And by this, what I really
mean specifically is if you make any
quantity that's below a minimum viable
quality threshold, all of those videos
are going to fail. So, it's not worth
taking a quantity first strategy if that
means you have to drop your quality down
in order to get that volume out. Now,
here's why I believe going forward in
2025 and beyond, quality first matters
more. The feed is now full of really
good content. There are a ton of
good creators now making a ton of good
videos. And this is only the beginning.
As AI content gets better, I expect the
amount of good videos to go up a
thousandx in the next 3 years. This
means that the average viewer is
inundated with more and more good
content. And so their baseline for what
average is is slowly drifting up. If the
baseline content was a 3 out of 10, well
then as long as you beat the baseline,
you could cut through. That baseline is
now drifting from 3 to 4 to 5 to 6. and
now it's up at 7 or 8 out of 10. People
have seen so much good content that
anything worse fails automatically. So,
in order to have your content continue
to cut through in the next era, it's
either going to need to be exceptionally
well-made, extremely unique, or both, or
it's just going to flop automatically.
The truth is, the average filler volume
stuff did work in the past few years and
has continued to work up until around
now. Moving forward, it will not because
the baseline is increasing. So, I don't
care if you post 30 videos per week, 10
videos per week, or two videos per week.
If they're below a 7 out of 10 quality,
they're going to fail. The viewer's eye
is just trained to filter out stuff that
doesn't look as good as what the
baseline is. Now, I'll say this. There
is a time in your creator arc where
quantity first makes sense as the right
strategy. And that time is at the very
beginning when your skills are at a
zero. You need to close the gap from 0
out of 10 to 7 out of 10 quality. And
the best way to close that gap is more
quantity. So, here's what I recommend
for most people. I'll say it super
specifically so it eliminates all
confusion. When you're starting out, you
have zero content skills. That means
your quality is a 0 out of 10 and your
quantity is a 0 out of 10. In order to
get any video to cut through, you have
to get the quality up to a 7 out of 10.
Anything below that will fail. Now, the
best way to improve your quality skills
up to a seven is to make a ton of
quantity between zero and seven. The
more quantity you make, the faster those
skills increase, as long as you're
learning between reps. I call this your
learning era. The goal during the
learning era is not to grow and hit
bangers. It's to increase your skills up
to a seven out of 10 so that you can
enter the game. Now, when I say do as
much quantity to get to 7 out of 10
quality, what do I mean? Do as much
quantity means make as many videos as
you can where you can learn between
reps. If you make one video a week, your
skills are going to develop 7 to 10
times slower than someone making a video
every day. Now, when I say 7 out of 10
quality, what do I really mean? Because
I understand the word quality is very
subjective and fuzzy. 7 out of 10 is
very subjective. What does that actually
mean? If you were to line up 10 videos
on the exact same topic, 1 to 10, are
you at least the seventh, eth, ninth, or
tenth best video? That's a 7 out of 10.
What does this really mean in practice?
If you think about the content workflow,
idea, scripting, recording, editing,
posting that workflow, are you doing all
the things you think you can be doing
from a tips and strategies perspective
in each bucket? That is about a 7 out of
10. So, what I mean by that is, are you
using some validated process to find
ideas, or are you just picking random
stuff? For scripting, are you using a
storytelling framework and a hook
framework that's proven to work, or you
just picking random stuff? For editing,
are you using a visual format that's
proven to work, or you just picking
random stuff? For recording, are you
recording in a clean background that
looks high quality with 4K footage, or
are you just half-hazardly shooting some
blurry thing with no background and poor
lighting? Those are the table stakes
that get you around 7 out of 10. Now, at
seven out of 10, you will look at a
creator that you really admire. Maybe
it's me, maybe it's someone else, and
you'll still notice a difference. That's
okay. Those people are at nine or 10 out
of 10, and you're at a seven. But if
you're not doing those table stakes
things, your quality is probably below a
7 out of 10, and you should be doing
them. Now, once you feel like your
quality on a single rep is at 7 out of
10, you're doing all the things you
think you should, but you're still not
sure why your stuff does not look like
the creators you admire, good, you're at
a 7 out of 10. Now, your job is to
increase quantity up to one video per
day while maintaining 7 out of 10
quality. Do not dip below 7 out of 10
quality cuz as we've mentioned, anything
below that will fail immediately. Your
goal is to figure out how can I get to
one video per day at 7 out of 10
quantity. That's like metric benchmark
number one. Now, once you get there and
you get comfortable, you'll already be
in the top 1 to 2% of creators. If
you're making seven 7 out of 10 videos
per week, you will crush. However,
you'll want your video quality to be
better. That's natural with every
creator. So, you're going to want to go
up from 7 to 9 out of 10. Now, when you
do that, you're going to have to spend
more time per rep trying to figure out
those icing details. You're going to
want to spend a couple more hours per
video. When you do that, your quantity
is going to drop from seven down to two
or three per week. That's okay. You get
your quality up to 9 out of 10, and then
slowly you increase that quantity until
you get to the point where you're making
one video a day at 9 out of 10 quality.
When you can get there, your videos will
be almost indistinguishable from anyone
else on the internet and your quantity
will be outpacing them. That's how you
win. The key difference with this whole
section, my shift from quantity to
quality is to say this. Anything below a
7 out of 10 quality will not work today
and in the future. And so, if you were
taking a quantity first 20 videos a
week, super big volume approach, that's
not going to work unless those videos
are above a 7 out of 10 quality. All
right, social media trend number five is
the emergence of more testing when it
comes to organic video content. We're
entering an era where content scientists
that can run micro tests and AB compare
different things will outperform
artists. We're shifting from artists to
scientists. I've talked about this
before. Now, the most important feature
in this category that Instagram released
in the last 12 months is called trial
reels. And if you don't know what trial
reels are, this is the most slept on
social feature on the entire internet.
Essentially, trial reels allows you to
run concurrent tests of lookalike videos
at the same time to nonfollowers. It's
basically like Instagram letting you run
free ads as much as you want. So, let's
say you're making a video about Meta's
new Ray-B band glasses. You spent a ton
of time on this video, but you're just
not sure if the hook you made is going
to perform. And as we know, as soon as a
viewer churns, nothing matters after
that point. So, it's really important to
dial the hook in. What you can do is
make five different slight variations of
the video. same exact body but five
different hooks, whether it's what you
say or the visuals you show. You can
then post all five of these variations
as different trial reels at the same
time. Whichever one performs the best,
you can then release that as the main
one you post. Now, trial reels work so
well because Instagram doesn't put those
five trial reels on your profile. So,
it's not like your grid is going to show
the same video five different times.
They also don't show those videos to
people that already follow you. So, only
strangers are seeing the different
variations. It's a true ABCDE test. And
it's honestly insane how few people talk
about using trial reels because
essentially what this allows you to do
is test video hooks for free with zero
risk. If you spend 4 hours making a
video, well, it's worth spending an
extra 30 minutes to film four additional
hooks so that you can double or triple
the output and make that effort worth
it. This will help you have a much
higher hit rate on your videos without
having to remake a full other one. And
if you think about it, that's really the
goal of marketing. How do we get the
most possible reach with the least
possible effort? And if we can take
actions to derisk that effort, even
better. Now, if you think about it, all
other forms of marketing have extensive
testing built in natively. Most email
marketing has A versus B versus C
headline testing. Paid ads are basically
one giant set of tests. You're running a
ton of ads trying to see what works and
double down. YouTube has A versus B vers
thumbnail testing. But until trial
reels, organic short form video really
had no component where you could test
without making a full video. You kind of
just had to make the whole thing, post
it, and then hope it works. So the
takeaway is that I think this test first
approach is going to come to organic
video content more in the next few
years. For example, imagine if you made
a YouTube video like this, but you could
upload three different CTAs that would
automatically get slotted in and they
could AB test the performance. Whichever
one was best, that's the video that
ended up getting released. I think we
are not very far away from having a
really robust testing process when it
comes to organic video content. So for
now, my tactical guidance to you if
you're watching this video is this. If
you make short form video on Instagram,
you need to be using trial reels. It's a
huge cheat code. All right, the last
social trend number six is what I call
R&D content teams. Over the past few
years, we've quietly watched the
emergence of an entire new class of
content native marketers. These are
people that grew up with social media
and just default understand short form
video, the algorithm, and attention. It
is baked into their DNA. These people
have learned over the past few years to
become clippers, Tik Tok shop
affiliates. A lot of them are making 20
to $50,000 per month just making short
form videos from home. Now, here's where
this gets interesting and why this is
such a valuable trend. The future of
Brand Social is going to be building
pools of these cracked content natives
that work as gun for hire mercenaries
that can push any brand you want. Now,
I've made a video in the past breaking
down how brands are starting to build
out these pools of creators. If you want
that, I will link it below. But the
truth is, brands on the forefront
already have Discord and Slack
communities full of these people that
are upside helping crack the content
code and feeding it to each other. In
the future, every brand is going to have
a head of content that spearheads the
R&D. And if that person doesn't make
content already and doesn't have at
least 100,000 followers, they're the
wrong hire. Once that person is in
place, they will disseminate a strategy
for how to activate these pods. They're
testing feeding the pods. The pods are
testing feeding them. And there's a
recursive loop of learning over and
over. Content is no longer a spoke of
marketing. Content is the marketing
flywheel. And everything else are just
spokes that feed the content. So, if
you're a CMO or a founder of a brand,
this content pod strategy is going to
become a critical piece of your
marketing mix moving forward. It's so
important that I believe brands are
going to start hiring creator in
residence positions that are these R&D
savages that can run these pods. Now, if
you're interested in me making another
video for how brands should build out
these content R&D pods, let me know and
I can do that. All right, guys. That is
all I've got for this video. We covered
the six biggest social media trends that
I see coming up over the next few years
that you can take advantage of. As
always, guys, I'm trying my absolute
best to bring new stuff every week that
gives you a leg up on everyone else when
it comes to the content game. If you're
a business owner and you like this
video, you like getting these tips, you
like the way I break things down, you
should definitely join Wavy World. It's
my free community specifically for
entrepreneurs, we've got 65 free
tutorials and trainings just like this
in there that are sequenced so that you
can improve your content the fastest. We
have 33,000 entrepreneurs that are all
helping each other improve their
content. It's really a great community
and it's better than most paid programs
that people have. So, if you want to
join that for free, I've got a link in
the description below. We will see you
guys on the next video. Peace.